in this lesson i want to talk about what
is the purpose of azure arc
if we think about azure
azure is really as i've talked about
before
the idea of this huge amount of capacity
this capacity is exposed over many many
regions throughout the world
and we consume it through various types
of resource this could be a virtual
machine it might be an aks cluster for
containers could be a managed data
service could be an app service could be
machine learning whatever that might be
and in addition to that capacity and
resource azure gives us lots of
governance and management features i
have things like azure policy
i have role-based access control
i have tagging
i have various defender for solutions
when i think about security this could
be defender for cloud just for all up
security posture this could be defender
for
containers defender for kubernetes
defender for various types of service to
bring enhanced security
and i can think about this all through
the azure
resource manager this is this control
plane
that we use to interact with azure be it
by a portal a template a powershell or
cli or whatever else
then we talk about azure as this
capacity exposes resources realize i may
have capacity
in other places i may have capacity on
premises
through
my own private clouds i may have
capacity in some other cloud
aws gcp whatever that could be i may
have that capacity
so the whole point of azure arc
is arc is going to extend
this control plane of azure to services
outside of azure
i'm going to bring this control plane
this governance set of capabilities to
other things and this could be on
premises this could be in other clouds
now there are a number of different
solutions for this
the first solution i can think about
is arc
enabled
servers
so this could be windows this could be
linux this could be a vm this could be a
bare metal i.e a physical machine
and what's going to happen here this arc
enabled for servers is running inside
that operating system
i have an agent running inside there and
then once i have this agent this control
plane of azure via arc
is now extended to whatever that is so i
have some os instance
that now is arc enabled through that
agent
and then the features of azure and that
control plane are brought into this
operating system
i can deploy governance with azure
policy and role-based access control
i get things like defender for cloud for
that security posture
i can do patching i can do other types
of automations
i now have tagging available i can find
it in my azure inventory i can search
for it through resource graph i have an
identity just like a managed identity to
interact with other services so it's
about extending
azure to resources outside of azure this
is what arc enabled servers is doing and
that's fantastic
but realize there's more than just
operating systems
i may also have capacity again it could
be in other clouds it could be on
premises that's maybe kubernetes
kubernetes is that industry standard
orchestrator for containers i create
pods that host there
so once again
there's arc enabled kubernetes so i can
have arc
enabled
kubernetes
there are services i install
inside my kubernetes instance it's cncf
um compatible so it's compliant with
cncf doesn't matter where it is
aws gcp
on-premises
and now i'm bringing once again the
azure capabilities through there once
again i'm getting all of these
capabilities around
tagging
policy
i'm defender for kubernetes
i get git ops
i have the idea of i can point now to a
certain git repo
and it will automatically pull down the
deployment manifest of what should be
deployed into there so i get these
really great features
in terms of not just managing the
kubernetes but managing the state of the
workloads i want to run inside it
once i have arc enabled kubernetes there
are actually a whole set of other arc
services that sit on top of arc enabled
kubernetes
there are arc enabled data services
sql managed instance um postgres sql
hyperscale
there are arc enabled app services
and once again these all sit on top of
this arc enabled kubernetes app services
functions logic apps there's also arc
enabled machine learning for training
for inferencing and these are actually
constantly being added to there's now um
vmware vm lifecycle create vm start vm
stop vms resize vms delete vms there's a
whole set of solutions all around this
if we look at the portal super quickly
and i just look at my azure arc
you can see them
well sure there's arc for servers
there's arc for kubernetes
if i'm using some of the azure stack
solutions like hci or edge i can layer
this on top of it to bring additional
management and services
hey there's that arc for vmware vcenters
but then on top of all of these things
well then i can have these other types
of service
i can see well data services
i can see those application services
all of these running on arc so i can
really think about what is arc
arc is all about the idea of extending
that control plane of azure to capacity
be it an os or kubernetes wherever that
capacity may reside i'm bringing that
governance i'm bringing those security
features those benefits of azure
but then on top of that i can then bring
down a layer on azure resources and the
service
data services app services machine
learning services wherever that may be
really enabling a consistent hybrid
cloud so i focus on the azure control
plane
but hey is that capacity is in other
places as i need it it doesn't matter
our enabled servers archival kubernetes
on-prem in other clouds then on this
kubernetes wherever it resides data
machine learning that's what arc is it's
bringing those azure capabilities
to wherever i have that capacity